Now, the next step that we're going to take might seem like a strange one,
but it is an essential part of the CDK workflow.
And that is we're going to delete an existing CDK application.
So here, first,
we're going to be utilizing the CLI to delete a custom application.
We'll also be reviewing other methods for deleting a deployed CDK app.
So, let's dive in.
So I'm here within the terminal,
and the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to run a cdk diff.
Now we should see here that there are no changes because we
have deployed all of our application.
And that is indeed what we see here.
Now that we have this in place, we're now ready to run cdk destroy.
Now, this will go through the process of deleting our deployed application.
It's going to ask us for confirmation.
We're going to say, yes.
And so it will now go through the process of deleting all of the
resources within our stack and then ultimately,
our stack itself. And this is a critical piece here, if we define all
of our infrastructure by infrastructure as code,
there should be no reason why we can't destroy and
then simply redeploy our application.
A matter of fact,
this is one of the key checks that we can do to see if we are
fully abiding by infrastructure as code.
If we delete and then redeploy and our application isn't in the same state,
there's probably something we're doing here that is outside the best
practices of infrastructure as code. As an example, often,
when I'm working on large scale applications within AWS accounts that I manage,
I will actually delete the application potentially at the
end of the day or certainly before the weekend so that I
don't incur any unneeded charges.
And I know that I can simply redeploy whenever I'm ready
to work again with my application.
And so now here we will wait for this process to complete
while we're deleting our CDK stack. And now we can see that
our CDK app has been destroyed.
So now, let's navigate over to the console.
So I'm here in the CloudFormation console and you can see
that we only have one stack, our CDKToolkit.
So we did successfully delete our custom application,
but I want to call out that you could, if you need to, delete your
application from within the console as well.
So I'm going to click on my CDKToolkit stack.
Now, I'm not going to delete this,
but I could go through here and actually press the delete option
here within the console and then walk through the process of
deleting it here. Because remember,
at the end of the day our custom CDK stack is just a CloudFormation stack.
And so anything we could do here,
including going in and doing things like drift detection,
for example, or going in and changing termination protection.
These are things that we could enable within the console, as well as working with the CDK CLI.